“We prepared a video for you!” It was a regular night on a workday when the message from Google Photo, a photo sharing and storage service, flashed on my smartphone. I clicked the video in passing, but all of a sudden, I was surprised. Seeing a slideshow of my backpacking trip to India with a delightful music, I felt like Google Photo really understood me. Meanwhile, it made me ponder the relation between humanity and technology. As artwork reflects the artist's expectations for society, artificial intelligence demonstrates human’s pursuit of an assistant for higher standard of living.

In my sophomore year, I learned about the amazing power of artificial intelligence in a computerized numerical control (CNC) machine with automatic path-planning. Thus, it propelled me to double majors in computer science and mechanical engineering, which was highly selective that only 6 applicants out of 120 were accepted in 2014 and few finished. Consequently, double majors have assisted me with a higher degree of flexibility in designing projects like the 3D printer.

In 2016, to explore the latest research in artificial intelligence, I joined a research in Academia Sinica. The topic was supporting evidence extraction method with bilingual evaluation understudy (BLEU) algorithm for machine answering social science problems. With Python programming skill that I learned in my double majors, I designed a program to analyze the accuracy of 600 questions. The accuracy of our original implement was 23%. With systematic investigation on the training set, I diagnosed some errors from BLEU calculation and improved 10% of accuracy on training and testing set by modifying it. In conclusion, I could complete the project independently and have a better idea of my study plan.

After research in Academia Sinica, my enthusiasm for artificial intelligence supported me to take the course of the intelligent conversational bot. It provides me with knowledge of building natural language understanding (NLU) with recursive neural network and training our dialogue manager (DM) with reinforcement learning. In the final project, my friends and I created the Doctor-Bot, which, with NLU and DM modules, helps patients reserve doctors according to their symptom in a conversation. Moreover, for better user experience, I integrated our system on LINE, a popular application for instant communications. Our design was awarded second place by engineers from Appier, a famous AI technology company, and invited to NTU Hospital Information Technology Office’s weekly meeting for a presentation and live demo. After this project, I gained knowledge of machine learning and became more assure that conversation is a very natural way for human-robot interaction, which is a field I would devote to in the future.

For the gap year between undergrad and graduate program overseas, I prepared myself by taking artificial intelligence and machine learning courses in a master program, which I do not plan to get a degree; meanwhile, working in Mozilla, as an engineering student worker, to acquire more experience in an international company.

My passion for creating artificial intelligence robots to assist our daily life determines my focus for a graduate study in artificial intelligence, robotics, and human-computer interaction. In Master of Science in Computer Science of Georgia Institute of Technology, specialization in Interactive Intelligence corresponds and supports my career plan strongly. Courses like Software Development Process, Case-Based Reasoning, Knowledge-Based AI, AI Storytelling in Virtual Worlds, and Personal Health Informatics will be my first choices.

In addition, many research projects in your school are interesting, for example, professor Lauren Wilcox’s research on “Consumer Tools for Health Information Search” in Health Experience and Applications Lab impressed me immediately. In my Doctor-Bot project, the question of how to improve user experience by providing suitable medication information crowded my mind. However, in your project, it presents an innovative way by filtering articles by “topic” and “feature”. If I have a chance to join the lab, I can further explore the topic of patient-centered interaction between medicational chatbot and users, which is the ultimate goal for human-robot interaction in my belief. With a solid background in language understanding, I believe this projects could help provide information to patients more initiative, and aid doctors for a better process of diagnosis.

In the future, I would like to work in the IT industry as a software engineer. Creating robots with artificial intelligence is always my biggest dream. ElliQ, Echo, or Google Photo have blueprinted interaction between human and artificial intelligence in the future. However, they are still far from human’s level communication with emotion sensing and flexible reasoning skill. With a solid background in double majors and research/intern experience, it will be my advantages to contribute and make a difference.

If technology understands us more, human will have more freedom to explore the possibility waiting for us, fulfill their dream, and find the value of life. This is a goal I keep pursuing. Therefore, with all my experience, I am ready for advanced study in this program. Sincerely, I am looking forward to joining Georgia Institute of Technology, as an assistant of my career in artificial intelligence.
